[docs] update roadmap document (#9899)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector: docs/ga-roadmap.md

# Collector v1 Roadmap

> This document contains the roadmap for the Collector as of 4-Apr-2024. The main goal of this roadmap is to provide clarity on the areas of focus in order to release a v1 of the Collector.

Reviewer: nit: One can figure out the date by looking at the last commit that updated this file
```suggestion
This document contains the roadmap for the Collector. The main goal of this roadmap is to provide clarity on the areas of focus in order to release a v1 of the Collector.
```

## Proposal

The proposed approach to delivering a stable release of the OpenTelemetry Collector is to produce a distribution of the Collector that contains a minimum set of components which have been stabilized. By doing so, the project contributors will ensure dependencies of those components have also been released under a stable version.

The proposed distribution is set to include the following components only:

- OTLP receiver
- OTLP exporter
- OTLP HTTP exporter

> These modules depend on a list of other modules, the full list is available in issue [#9375](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/issues/9375).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These modules depend on a list of other modules, the full list is available in issue [#9375](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/issues/9375).

All stabilized modules will conform to the API expectations outlined in the [VERSIONING.md](../VERSIONING.md) document.
```

> ## Out of scope

Reviewer 2: Does mdatagen need to be in this list?

Author: added mdatagen

Explicitly, the following are not in the scope of v1 for the purposes of this document:

> * stabilization of all component developer APIs or other parts of the Collector. Component developers are NOT the audience for this work

Reviewer 2: Let's define what we mean by `component developer`. Are the core modules are required by component developers, and those are what we are stabilizing, so this exclusion isn't clear to me.

Author: You're right, i do think some of the APIs used by component developers are being stabilized as part of the work being done. Removing this line

* stabilization of additional components needed by distribution maintainers. Vendors are not the audience
* Collector Builder
* telemetrygen

> * Component APIs as part of the Core repository

Reviewer 2: Let's clarify how this is different from the first item.

Author: tried to clarify by expanding the first item

Those components are free to pursue v1 at their own pace and may be the focus of future stability work.

## Additional Requirements

> The following is a list of requirements for the Collector to be deemed as 1.0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a list of requirements for this minimal Collector distribution to be deemed as 1.0:
```

> * The Collector MUST be observable

Reviewer: Should we just drop the uppercase MUST and SHOULD? We don't use them consistently (and I don't think that's because of normative vs non-normative) and this is not a specification document nor is it written in sufficient detail so as to make this actionable.

Author: Done

  * Metrics and traces SHOULD be produced for data in the hot path
  * Metrics should be documented in the end-user documentation
  * Metrics, or a subset of them, should be marked as stable in the documentation

>   * Logs SHOULD be produced in the stdout for Collector lifecycle events

Reviewer: I believe we output to stderr by default. In any case, I don't think where we output the logs is important for this document, I would just say:
```suggestion
  * Logs SHOULD be produced for Collector lifecycle events
```

>   * Telemetry should be stable, so that users can rely on that on for their dashboards and alerts

Reviewer: I think this is too restrictive and it contradicts the *"Metrics, or a subset of them, should be marked as stable in the documentation"* line. I would rephrase as:

```suggestion
  * Stability expectations and lifecycle for telemetry should be documented, so that users can know what they can rely on  for their dashboards and alerts
```

The important bit is that end-users understand what they can rely on, not that we stabilize every single metric from v1. Telemetry will evolve, and we will need something like [what Kubernetes does](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/23/kubernetes-release-1.21-metrics-stability-ga/#what-are-the-stability-levels-for-metrics)

> * Move to make the collector better at dealing with backpressure and queueing

Reviewer: This is phrased differently from points above, we can argue what 'correctly' means but IMO we should phrase it closer to this
```suggestion
* The Collector should correctly handle backpressure and queueing
```

  * Support backpressure from the exporter all the way back to the receiver
  * Setting performance metrics in place and following best practices for benchmarking, load testing

>   * Enshrine in tests (generated for contrib) lifecycle expectations of components

Reviewer: nit: The rest of the document starts all requirements with a noun and describes how it should behave. Can we rephrase these to be consistent? (e.g. "Backpressure should be supported [...]")

>   * Enshrine in tests (generated for contrib) lifecycle expectations of components

Reviewer 3: Maybe goleak tests as well?

> * End-user documentation should be provided as part of the official project’s documentation under opentelemetry.io, including:

Reviewer 3: Do we want to call out queue, batch & backpressure too?

Author: Added to the list of docs

  * Available (stable) components and how to use them
  * Blueprints for common use cases

>   * Error scenarios should be documented
>   * Specifically, error propagation

Reviewer: These two points depend on each other and don't read like a title from a docs page as the rest do. I would rephrase as
```suggestion
  * Error scenarios and error propagation
```

>   * Troubleshooting, including how to obtain telemetry from the Collector for the purposes of bug reporting

Reviewer: Same as above, rephrasing to make it more title-y
```suggestion
  * Troubleshooting and how to obtain telemetry from the Collector for the purposes of bug reporting
```

  * Queueing, batching, and handling of backpressure
* The Collector MUST be supported

>   * We need to make sure we can support the collector distribution and set clear expectations.
>   * We need to have workflows, processes in place to handle the influx of questions.

Reviewer: I don't feel like the first line this is actionable, maybe something like this that merges the two points? (also rephrasing for consistency)
```suggestion
  * Processes, workflows and expectations regarding support, bug reporting and questions should be documented.
```

>   * We need to have a support policy in place for 1.0 with an end of life date.

Reviewer: Are we going to have a date? I would say what we want, if anything, is a minimum timeline for support
```suggestion
  * A minimum support period for 1.0 is documented
```

but maybe just dropping this as a requirement is the way to go (I don't feel like we have a clear picture of what this means):

```suggestion
```

Author: I wonder if this should be documented in the same way API/SDK stability is documented in the specification: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/versioning-and-stability.md#api-support

Reviewer: That makes sense to me, we can link to that/paraphrase it here
